# Publications 

During my time at Emmanuel I was able to work as a research assistant under the mentorship of Dr. Benjamin Allen and Dr. Christine sample. Through our 
work we were able to find some pretty cool results. The abstract is: 
A population’s spatial structure affects the rate of genetic change and the outcome of natural selection. These effects can be modeled mathematically using the Birth-death process on graphs. Individuals occupy the vertices of a weighted graph, and reproduce into neighboring vertices based on fitness. A key quantity is the probability that a mutant type will sweep to fixation, as a function of the mutant’s fitness. Graphs that increase the fixation probability of beneficial mutations, and decrease that of deleterious mutations, are said to amplify selection. However, fixation probabilities are difficult to compute for an arbitrary graph. Here we derive an expression for the fixation probability, of a weakly-selected mutation, in terms of the time for two lineages to coalesce. This expression enables weak-selection fixation probabilities to be computed, for an arbitrary weighted graph, in polynomial time. Applying this method, we explore the range of possible effects of graph structure on natural selection, genetic drift, and the balance between the two. Using exhaustive analysis of small graphs and a genetic search algorithm, we identify families of graphs with striking effects on fixation probability, and we analyze these families mathematically. Our work reveals the nuanced effects of graph structure on natural selection and neutral drift. In particular, we show how these notions depend critically on the process by which mutations arise.
